Alright in this video what we want to
do is set up our application. So we return
back a more friendly 404 error to
our users. So what I've done is I created
a 404 error HTML. So nothing too
complicated here. So you can see the HTML
up on the screen bringing in the same
things that we did before. I'm setting
the title to 404 not found error and
then I just have a heading one 404 not
found. You can see that on line 23 there. So I jump over to Chrome, we can see what
it looks like here. It's a pretty simple
page and we can get a lot fancier here.
For the main thing I want to show you
in this video is how to set that up. So
when we do get a 404 error from our NotFoundException, we display this page.
Let's jump back over here, so in our
RecipeController you can see down on
line 63 I've added in an ExceptionHandler. So this ExceptionHandler
returns back a ModelAndView and I just
gave it a name of handleNotFound and
I'm saying with the ExceptionHandler
annotation there, I'm using our NotFound
Exception class. So I do log an error
message saying we're handling a Not
FoundException and then I set the view
name to 404 error which matches over
here that 404 error HTML. So the Thymeleaf
templating engine will pick that up and
render that and I've also written a
test and let's go ahead and run that
test now. So actually I just modified
that so this is the not found and now
I'm checking here on line 63 to
make sure that we're getting back the
404 error. So when i get the status of
not found 404 in the HTTP status and not
found. And let's go ahead and run that
and we're going to see a failure here.
And what's happening is we're expecting
404 but we got 200. So we do have the
annotation there on ResponseStatus but what's
happening is that is actually taking
precedence. The handler method is taking
precedence so we can reuse this
annotation right here. Now if we run our
test, our test is going to go ahead and
run. So it's kind of how the Spring MVC
error handling works. This is the nature. So
that's taken a higher precedence than
that exception class. So it didn't see
that so to speak. So sometimes the stuff
gets a little tricky but you want to set
it up and you can use that ResponseStatus
elsewhere which I am doing now on the
controller method for that ExceptionHandler. So now my tests are passing,
let's double check make sure all the
tests are passing here. And then we'll go
ahead and run the application. We'll see
this in action. All the tests run and
let's go ahead and start up our
application now. You'll see this in
action. So we are up and running and
toggle over to Chrome. We have localhost,
still recipe 4. So just click refresh
on that and we can see the 404 not found
and we can also down here at the bottom
of the screen, I had positioned this so
that we can see the log output as well. We can see that we are getting the
handling NotFoundException. So we did
go into the ExceptionHandler and we can
see that also that we got this output
from a framework that is, remember what I
mentioned. Let's go ahead and take a look
at that class. So this is the Exception
HandlerExceptionResolver. So this is
what we looked at in the PowerPoint so
it extends that.
Extends that. And ultimately it extends
that interface and this is the interface
that Spring MVC is going to be using
internally. And if we want to do a lot
more versatile error handling within
Spring MVC, we could extend out this
class but I am not going to be showing
an example on that because you typically
don't get into that because the error
handling capabilities that you do have
inside of Spring MVC is more than.
It's plenty versatile enough for your needs.
I've never had to do it in my experience
using Spring. I know it's there but I
just don't have to use that. So this
is a perfect example I'm able to use the
annotation based method and return back
my own custom ModelAndView for the view
that I want. But I did want to show you
how we are getting a warning message out there where we did get that picked up. So
this error handler ultimately is getting
delegated over to this guy here. So I
hope that makes sense.